Call us today! (07) 3245 5126 |  info@best1cleaning.com
Best 1 Cleaning and Pest Control
Home
ABOUT
PRICING
CLEANING
PEST CONTROL
HINTS & TIPS
GALLERY
TESTIMONIALS
BLOG
CONTACT US
ABOUT
  
Best 1 Carpet Cleaning Brisbane – Ipswich – Gold & Sunshine Coast
Best 1 Cleaning was established over 15 years and operates as the leading carpet cleaning service in Brisbane, Ipswich, Gold & Sunshine Coast. Our clients are covered with full public liability insurance and all our cleaning products are environmentally friendly. We provide service to both residential and commercial customers in all areas of Brisbane – Ipswich – Gold & Sunshine Coast.

OUR GUARANTEE TO YOU:
We guarantee to clean your carpets to Australian Standards. We will clean your carpets with the up most care and attention without damaging your carpet. We have 5 million dollars of public liability cover for your protection. We take pride in our work and want you to refer us to your friends and family.

ENVIRONMENTALLY SAFE:
All of Best 1 cleaning & pest management’s products are safe for the whole family. We work hard with our suppliers to keep up to date with all the changes that go on in the cleaning and pest control industry today.

We live in an ever changing world and the different manufacturers that produce the products we use today are making them safer than ever before, with no loss of quality in the service being carried out, just safer products for the environment.

HOW TO CHOOSE THE RIGHT CARPET CLEANER:
To choose a quality carpet cleaner, you first have to see what sort of equipment they use. But you don’t get to see this until they arrive, which is to late by then. Most carpet cleaners that use a switch and bait tactics to push up the price are inexperienced.

Best 1 Carpet Cleaning has been in business for 16 years and has invested in powerful truck mounted machines and also use powerful portable machines for high rise buildings. We are experienced in carpet steam cleaning and carpet dry low moisture cleaning. When a cleaner uses a poorly maintained machine, they leave a sticky residue in your carpets/upholstery, which will attract dust. It’s this dust that makes carpets/upholstery re-soil faster than it would if a professional technician did the clean.

At Best 1, we have a last step injection process on our cleaning machines that flushes out all of the pre-spray and detergents that have been used to clean the carpets with, leaving the carpets/upholstery feeling fresh and clean again.

Don’t be fooled. Ask your cleaner how long they have been in business. Also, look for before and after pictures and videos on the websites. This way you can see what you are getting before booking. Do an ABN search and find out for yourself. Ask if they have insurance.

Don’t forget, Best 1 Cleaning & Pest Control are here to help. We want your repeat business. That’s how we have built our business.


Professional Commercial carpet Cleaning


Professional Services
One of the main things that keeps our regular customers coming back to us each year is our 100% guarantee service. We stand by what we do because we’re confident in our staff and machines and also believe we have the most relevant and up to date information available. We offer this to our customers free of charge.

Here at Best 1 Cleaning & Pest Control, we are committed to giving our customers a hassle-free service. This is how we have built our business up over the last 16 years.

Suburbs we service click here

.



pricing button image monthly specials get quote divider dots
 best 1 
Best 1 Cleaning and Pest Control. Best 1 Cleaning and Pest Control has been established for over 15 years and operates throughout Brisbane - Ipswich. Our clients are covered with full public liability insurance and all our cleaning products are environmentally friendly.

We provide service to both residential and commercial customers in all areas of Brisbane -Ipswich.

divider dots
CONTACT US
Best 1 Cleaning and Pest Control
address here suburb
QLD postcode Australia
(07) 3245 5126
Email: info@best1cleaning.com
Find us on Google
Recent Posts
Rubbish Removal Versus Skip Bin Hire, Which is Better?
Guide To Carpet Cleaning Cost
Guide to Carpet Cleaning – All Your Questions Answered
10 Health Benefits Of Carpet Cleaning
4 Easy Steps To Get Mud Stains Out Of Carpet
4 Ways To Winter Proof Your Home From Pests and Maintain Pest Control
Brisbane Carpet Cleaning & Pest Control
We use powerful truck mounted machines our carpet cleaning is guaranteed and safe from Brisbane to Ipswich. We are professional and courteous carpet cleaners and we service all suburbs.

(07) 3245 5126
Call today for all specials and combined services. We have the best residential or commercial carpet cleaning service deals and prices, so why overpay for quality. From carpet stains and dirt removal, dust mites treatment through to full house cleaning we have got you covered.

About Our Carpet Cleaning Process
Whether it be carpet steam cleaning, upholstery cleaning, leather cleaning, rug cleaning, or general steam cleaning, using our state of the art powerful truck mount machines & portable machines the drying time on your cleaned carpets and similar items can be as little as 30 mins! 24hrs a Day 7 Days a week divider dots
pest gone special
Get a Free Quote Today!
For a Free Quote, please call us directly on
(07) 3245 5126.
Or click the button below.
get a free quote
FOLLOW US
  
© 2022 Best 1 Cleaning and Pest Control | Home | Terms | Disclaimer | Contact us | Site Map | RSS
Privacy Policy
 
Google Rating
4.7 
