Call us today! (07) 3245 5126 |  info@best1cleaning.com
Best 1 Cleaning and Pest Control
Home
ABOUT
PRICING
CLEANING
PEST CONTROL
HINTS & TIPS
GALLERY
TESTIMONIALS
BLOG
CONTACT US
bond brisbane cleaning
Best Carpet Cleaner Prices in Brisbane
CLICK HERE
Best 1 Carpet Cleaning Brisbane – The Cleaning & Pest Control Experts
Best 1 Cleaning Brisbane offers unparalleled and quality carpet cleaning services for residential and commercial properties. With over 15 years of experience in offering carpet cleaning, the business has set new standards of cleaning in the industry. They have extremely well trained and seasoned carpet cleaners, who use innovative and powerful truck-mounted machines to clean your carpets thoroughly.

Best 1 understands that carpets are tremendously useful to any household and commercial property. Also, carpeting your property involves significant investment of money. Keeping this in mind, they offer matchless carpet cleaning solutions. However, there are several DIY carpet cleaning methods present on the market, but none of them provides long-lasting results. Further, when it comes to carpet cleaning, some of the cleaning businesses use strong chemicals and inappropriate equipment, which can damage carpet fibres and make your carpet look old. The cleaning professionals from Best1 Cleaning analyse your carpet first and then find out which cleaner will work the best for it. They use the most appropriate and mild quality cleaner to ensure deep cleaning of your carpet and leave your carpets completely clean and germ-free.

Image of boxes in an empty house
EMPTY HOUSE
Ideal if you are moving in or out.
Special offer – 3 rooms from ONLY $125
See our Empty Homes page for all inclusions

Learn More
Image of a furnished home
FURNISHED HOME
Ideal if your home needs a good clean & a freshen up.
Special offer – 3 rooms from ONLY $125
See our Furnished Homes Page for all inclusions.

Learn More
Image of a cockroach being held
PEST CONTROL
Fast – Reliable & Safe Bug Removal For Home Owners & Rentals – Move Out Special $88
See our Pest Control Services Page for more.

Learn More


GUARANTEED, FAST, COURTEOUS,
SAFE, ALWAYS LOW COST
service to residential and commercial customers.

Carpet Cleaning Packages

With our quality carpet cleaning services, we have built a strong reputation in the carpet cleaning domain. We make every possible effort to provide our customers the best cleaning results, so that they turn to us for carpet cleaning again and again. We offer Bronze, Silver or Gold packages to ensure immaculate cleaning results for our clients. So, according to the condition of the carpets and budget, clients can choose a carpet cleaning package to get the best cleaning results. Call Brisbane’s best carpet cleaners now to get quality carpet cleaning services at best prices. All professional carpet cleaning work is 100% guaranteed.

VIEW OUR PACKAGES
The Key Locations
We service the greater south east of Queensland with a special focus on the following locations: Brisbane & Ipswich

Call us Today on 07 3245 5126
or Get a FREE Quote

Best 1 Cleaning Services All Of Brisbane– Deodorise – Sanitise – Stain Removal – Lounge Suites Cleaning – Sofa Beds – Mattress Cleaning – Carpet Cleaning – Tile and Grout Cleaning – protection – Rug Cleaning – Water Damaged Carpets – Flood Water Extraction – Cars – Boats – Insect Control – Fleas – Cockroaches – Ants – Spiders – Bedbugs – Birdlice – Rats – Mice – Infestations – Environmentally Friendly

The best carpet cleaning and pest control service in Brisbane.
You’ll be so happy with our results, we 100% guarantee all our work.

Carpet Cleaning Process
When it comes to carpet cleaning, Best1 Cleaning not only uses carpet steam cleaning or hot water extraction or carpet dry cleaning method, but also follows a streamlined approach for ensuring 100% client satisfaction. Our carpet cleaning process involves following steps:

Pre-Inspection of
Carpets and Move Furniture
Firstly, our carpet cleaners perform a pre-inspection of the carpet and identify the type of stains. Then furniture is moved to ensure carpet cleaning is done without any hassle.

Pre-Vacuum
Then the carpets are pre-vacuumed to get rid of extra grime, soil, debris and dust from the carpet surface. This step helps in opening up the carpet fibers.

Addressing the Spots and Stains
On the basis of the identification of the stains done in the first step, our carpet cleaners treat the stained areas with specialised formulations.

Truck Mounted Machines
are used to Steam Clean
Now innovative and professional truck mounted machines are used to steam clean the carpet and get rid of all the residual dirt, grime, and soil trapped deep inside the carpet fibres.

Deodorise, Sanitise
and Condition
This step leaves your floors smelling fresh, removes the foul odour and kills bacteria.

Grooming
The final step involves carpet grooming. It helps in resetting the carpet fibres and ensures faster drying.

Final Inspection
A final inspection is made to ensure that you are satisfied with the carpet results.

Our other Cleaning Services
Carpet Steam Cleaning
The carpet steam cleaning method also known as hot water extraction uses the power of steam to deep clean your carpets. In this, a hose nozzle is used to spray heated water with dissolved cleaning solutions directly onto the carpet. Then innovative truck mounted steam machines vacuums the liquid. It ensures removal of any of the dirt and grime trapped into the carpet fibres. This method is one of the most recommended carpet cleaning methods by carpet manufacturers across the globe. If you have deeply soiled carpets, then this method is the best to get rid of that stubborn soil.

Carpet Dry Cleaning
Carpet dry cleaning is also known as no-moisture or “very low moisture” carpet cleaning technique. Specialised and advanced truck mounted machines sprays dry shampoos on the carpet to clean the carpets. It helps to get rid of dirt, stains, and allergens from the carpet fibers. However, this method doesn’t work for heavily soiled carpets.

Upholstery Cleaning
Dust and dirt that your home catches every day, eventually settle down deep inside the fibres of your upholstered furniture. Some DIY methods can help when it comes to cleaning your upholstery like sofas. However, if that doesn’t work, the hiring professional upholstery cleaning  is the best. Best1 Cleaning is one of the reputed upholstery cleaning service providers in Brisbane, who uses hot water extraction machines to get rid of stains, bacteria, dust and grime trapped inside the fabric of your upholstered furniture.

Rug Cleaning
To ensure deep cleaning of your rugs, you should hire professional rug cleaning. Best1 Cleaning has professional rug cleaners who use quality and mild cleaning supplies and innovative equipment to deep clean your rugs and leave them as brand new. By using quality cleaning products, they ensure that your rugs suffer no shrinkage and damage.

Tile and Grout
Who doesn’t want sparkling clean tiles and grouts? If you are looking for the best tile and grout cleaning, then you should look no further then Best1 Cleaning, who has years of expertise in cleaning tiles and grout. Our professional cleaners employ innovative methods to clean your tiles and leave them shining.

Commercial Carpet Cleaning
Properly cleaned commercial spaces are necessary to ensure the health and well being of your employees. Commercial carpets undergoes lot of foot traffic every day and hence they looks dirty easily. If not cleaned regularly, they can become a breeding ground for bacteria and viruses. So, you need a professional carpet cleaner like Best1 Cleaning for commercial carpet cleaning. It uses quality chemicals and advanced tools to get rid of dust and grime from your commercial carpets. We also provide flood damage restoration. If water marks have spoiled carpets we can restore them.

Pest Control
Do you have a pest issue and need a treatment when moving out of your rental property? Best1 Cleaning’s certified pest management experts are skillfully licensed and qualified. Pests we treat include dust mites, ticks, fleas, cockroaches, ants, spiders, rats, mice and termites. We use powerful mild chemicals methods that are safe for pets.


Services
Carpet Steam Cleaning
Upholstery and Leather Cleaning
Carpet Stain Removal
Professional Tile and Grout Cleaning
Mattress cleaning
Rugs, Mats and Floor Runners
Move Out / End Of Lease Cleans
Flood Restoration and Mould Removal
Flood water damage / Dry Wet Carpet
Why Choose Us
Best1 Cleaning aims to provide best cleaning results each and every time at best prices. Here are some of the reasons, why you should hire us for all your cleaning requirements:

15 years’ experience
Professional and experienced team
On-time services at best prices
We use best quality cleaning products and equipment
All cleaning services come with 100% customer satisfaction
Competitive price
Local Brisbane Cleaners

Carpet Cleaning Costs
We offer best cleaning services and best prices in Brisbane. Check out our cleaning services prices below:

Carpet Cleaning
EMPTY HOME
SPECIAL OFFERS
1 & 2 rooms	$88
3 rooms	$99
4 rooms	$115
5 rooms	$135
*Carpets must be pre vacuumed.


FURNISHED HOME
SPECIAL OFFERS
1 or 2 rooms	$99
3 rooms	$115
4 rooms	$140
5 rooms	$175
COMBO PACKAGE
DEALS
Save up to 20% for
multi services!

Contact us on 07 3245 5126 to discuss your specific requirements.

Frequently Asked Questions:
When the carpet becomes safe to use after cleaning?
Once the cleaning is done your carpet will be somewhat damp and generally, it takes around 3-8 hours for a carpet to be fully dried. However, we recommend that you use or walk over the carpet only after 24 hours. You can also switch on an external fan or air drier to ensure fast drying and use the carpet within 12 hours of the cleaning.

Why should we hire professionals for carpet cleaning?
Professional cleaners have experience in the carpet cleaning industry and hence they clean the carpets in a better way. So, hiring them is a good decision. Professional carpet cleaning teams have innovative cleaning equipment and supplies to ensure thorough cleaning of your carpets. They are able to remove even the dirt and gripe that is trapped deep inside the carpet fibres. They have expertise in cleaning carpets and hence they can clean the carpets in a better way.

How long is the steam cleaning process?
Steam carpet cleaning is the most recommended carpet cleaning method. Also known as hot water extraction method this method effectively removes the dirt and grime from deep inside your carpet fibers. It takes around 4-6 hours depending upon the size of the carpet for the carpet steam cleaning process to get completed. The process completion duration also depends on how dirty is the carpet.

Will the furniture be moved for the carpet cleaning service?
If you have placed some heavy furniture on the carpet, then it will not be possible for us to move it. Hence, in order to get your carpet cleaned, you have to remove any furniture placed on it. Anything placed on the carpet doesn’t allow to operate the cleaning tools and equipment efficiently, hence reducing the quality of carpet cleaning. So, when you book carpet cleaning services, you should ensure to move anything placed on the carpets.

How often should I hire professional carpet cleaning services?
Carpets go through so much daily. They are walked on, things spill over them, pets sit on them and so on. It makes them a breeding ground for bacteria and viruses, so you need to get them cleaned professionally at least twice a year apart from doing regular vacuuming. It will keep your carpets looking as brand new and also prolong their life.

Do you offer a carpet dry cleaning service?
Yes, we also offer carpet dry cleaning service. We offer carpet stain removal, sanitising, deodorising and carpet steam cleaning services at best and competitive prices. If you are looking to book quality carpet cleaning, then you should call us or visit our website at the earliest.

Which is the best carpet cleaning method?
Carpet steam cleaning is the best carpet cleaning method. It uses truck-mounted machines and quality cleaning supplies to remove the dirt, stains, allergens and grime which are deeply stuck inside the carpet fibres. This method is also called hot water extraction method and uses the power of steam to thoroughly clean the carpets. Further, the carpets usually get completely dried within 3-6 hours once the carpet cleaning is done. So, you can use it within a very short time after cleaning. This carpet cleaning method doesn’t affect the quality of the carpet and leave them looking as brand new.

Do you also provide same day carpet cleaning services?
Yes, we do. If you are looking for same day carpet cleaning, then we can help you. You just need to book our services online or on call and tell us your needs. We will reach your place within a few hours of booking.

Can you remove all kinds of stains from your carpets?
We try to get rid of even the most difficult to remove stains from your carpets without damaging your carpet fibers. However, there are some types of stubborn stains that can’t be get rid of. So, before promising anything, we check the nature of stains and then try to remove the stains completely.

Are your services safe for kids and pets?
We are a customer-centric carpet cleaning business and hence we are very much concerned about the well-being of our clients and their family. So, we use quality and safe cleaning products which are free from harmful chemicals to clean your carpets. Our chosen cleaning products are safe for your pets and kids.

Servicing Greater South East of Queensland
Including Brisbane, Ipswich, Gold Coast & Sunshine Coast


Contact Us
Best 1 Cleaning Brisbane, QLD | Phone: 07 3245 5126 | Email: info@best1cleaning.com |

Best1Cleaning is one of the leading carpet cleaners in Brisbane offering the best and most competitive carpet cleaning services.
We guarantee our qualified and friendly team have the expertise and equipment to do get any job done – on time
and on budget. If you are looking for a free quote then contact us today.

View full map
For expert cleaning homeowners rely on. Proudly servicing the greater south east of Queensland with a focus on Brisbane, Ipswich, Gold Coast and Sunshine Coast.
You’ll be so happy with our results, we 100% guarantee all our work.

GET A FREE QUOTE
CONTACT US
Best 1 Cleaning and Pest Control
address here suburb
QLD postcode Australia
(07) 3245 5126
Email: info@best1cleaning.com
Find us on Google
Recent Posts
Rubbish Removal Versus Skip Bin Hire, Which is Better?
Guide To Carpet Cleaning Cost
Guide to Carpet Cleaning – All Your Questions Answered
10 Health Benefits Of Carpet Cleaning
4 Easy Steps To Get Mud Stains Out Of Carpet
4 Ways To Winter Proof Your Home From Pests and Maintain Pest Control
Brisbane Carpet Cleaning & Pest Control
We use powerful truck mounted machines our carpet cleaning is guaranteed and safe from Brisbane to Ipswich. We are professional and courteous carpet cleaners and we service all suburbs.

(07) 3245 5126
Call today for all specials and combined services. We have the best residential or commercial carpet cleaning service deals and prices, so why overpay for quality. From carpet stains and dirt removal, dust mites treatment through to full house cleaning we have got you covered.

About Our Carpet Cleaning Process
Whether it be carpet steam cleaning, upholstery cleaning, leather cleaning, rug cleaning, or general steam cleaning, using our state of the art powerful truck mount machines & portable machines the drying time on your cleaned carpets and similar items can be as little as 30 mins! 24hrs a Day 7 Days a week divider dots
pest gone special
Get a Free Quote Today!
For a Free Quote, please call us directly on
(07) 3245 5126.
Or click the button below.
get a free quote
FOLLOW US
  
© 2022 Best 1 Cleaning and Pest Control | Home | Terms | Disclaimer | Contact us | Site Map | RSS
Privacy Policy
 
Google Rating
4.7 
